---
id: 2022-02
title: What's Newsletter February 2021
slug: /whats-news/2021-02
---
# What's Newsletter

## February 2021


Hey Nimbus customers!

Welcome to our very first edition of our “What’s New”-sletter. As our customers, we want to make sure we keep you in the loop with new Nimbus features and capabilities on a monthly basis.

Are you looking for a great Friday night movie? I'd highly recommend watching Les, Lauren, and Marina's video for [a deep dive into all our new features](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1CfAOKypY8TpD9-7RNlaGG8oL9FZDr-Lr/view).

Here is a sneak preview of some of the video highlights:

* 📇 Curious to see upcoming or completed experiments? Check out our new [Nimbus directory](https://experimenter.services.mozilla.com/nimbus/)!
* Data is now flowing into the Nimbus from Jetstream and you can navigate to experiment results from the Directory View or from the side bar!
* 📈 P.S don’t forget to check out the results of the [On/Off About:Welcome experiment](https://experimenter.services.mozilla.com/nimbus/onoff-aboutwelcome-experimentsults)
* 📊 Speaking of metrics, we have added `Days Of Use` as our guardrail metrics in the visualization. We now also have added graphs in the visualizations so experiment owners can see how the metric progresses over time.
* ⏸️ Don't have all the information to complete the page you're working on right now? Don't worry, we’ve removed some of the required fields so it’s easier to save your progress.
* 🗂️ Have you ever felt really lost trying to juggle Confluence, Jira, Google Docs, and Nimbus to find all your docs and tickets? We sure have, so Nimbus now offers the ability to add your relevant tickets and documents into Nimbus, and you can easily access them then from our summary page in the future.
* ⚠️ We know, there's nothing more frustrating than getting an [error message and not knowing what it means](https://media.tenor.com/images/866143f03774004d9897ddc23240226d/tenor.gif)! ⚠️ We just couldn't let that happen on Nimbus and now we have the right validation and error messages in our UI. Luckily, you will always know what's wrong now.

Curious about what's next?

If you're interested in seeing what visualizations might look like with primary and secondary probes, feel free to check out this [storybook](https://storage.googleapis.com/mozilla-storybooks-experimenter/commits/171d49e2bbc69ae75593ee0c2d91785e1b2368c8/nimbus-ui/index.html?path=/story/pages-results--basic).

Curious for even more? You can always check out our [Storybook link](https://storage.googleapis.com/mozilla-storybooks-experimenter/commits/171d49e2bbc69ae75593ee0c2d91785e1b2368c8/nimbus-ui/index.html?path=/story/pages-results--basic) to see what's in the pipeline.

Notable mentions:

Interested in learning more about how to use Nimbus? Here is our [Nimbus onboarding page](https://mozilla-hub.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/FJT/pages/11469776/Nimbus+Onboarding). Let Ana or Chelsea know if you’d like to go through onboarding and start using the platform.

If you'd like your work to be added to Next months "What's New"-sletter please [follow this page for instructions](https://mozilla-hub.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/FJT/pages/11470584/What+s+New+-sletter+Sign-Ups).

