---
id: 2022-07
title: What's Newsletter July 2022
slug: /2022-07
---

# What's New in Nimbus July 2022

## Welcome

The Nimbus team has welcomed a new team member: Charlie Humphreys, Mobile.

We're thrilled to have Charlie on board!

## Exciting Changes

### Sticky Enrollemt

- When creating a new experiment, users can now opt for sticky enrollment (clients will not be unenrolled, even if the targeting becomes false, until the experiment ends). This information is now visible on the experiment’s "Details" page so that the user can review if they have opted for sticky enrollment.

- In addition to that, a new warning has been added when creating a new experiment. If an experiment is using a targeting configuration that requires sticky enrollment, sticky enrollment would be auto selected to support that targeting expression.

### Normandy

Normandy will continue to be supported until Nimbus can take over all of its capabilities. So in the meanwhile, we have restored the create button in legacy.

### Feedback

Now a feedback [link](https://mozilla-hub.atlassian.net/secure/CreateIssueDetails!init.jspa?pid=10203&issuetype=10097) is also available on the landing page. Don’t wait to give us any feedback!

### Feature enabled

- #### Desktop

  Firefox 104 is removing support for Feature.enabled, so recipes targeting it should not use the Feature.enabled flag. As a result, Experiments for Firefox Desktop 104.And above requires you to have the feature enabled and need to specify the feature value too.

- #### Mobile
  The feature enabled flag was never implemented on mobile, so allowing it in the UI creates the false impression that it has some meaning for mobile experiments. So we have removed the feature-enabled flag for mobile experiments and forced them to specify a feature value for every branch, which may explicitly be an empty object.

Stay tuned for the next month's letter!
